README.md, before:

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/Code_License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/deepfloyd_if)](https://pepy.tech/project/deepfloyd_if)

# DeepFloyd-IF

<p align="center">
  <img src="./pics/nabla.jpg" width="100%">
</p>

We introduce DeepFloyd IF, a novel state-of-the-art open-source text-to-image model with a high degree of photorealism and language understanding. DeepFloyd IF is a modular composed of a frozen text encoder and three cascaded pixel diffusion modules: a base model that generates 64x64 px image based on text prompt and two super-resolution models, each designed to generate images of increasing resolution: 256x256 px and 1024x1024 px. All stages of the model utilize a frozen text encoder based on the T5 transformer to extract text embeddings, which are then fed into a UNet architecture enhanced with cross-attention and attention pooling. The result is a highly efficient model that outperforms current state-of-the-art models, achieving a zero-shot FID score of 6.66 on the COCO dataset. Our work underscores the potential of larger UNet architectures in the first stage of cascaded diffusion models and depicts a promising future for text-to-image synthesis.

<p align="center">
  <img src="./pics/if_architecture.jpg" width="100%">
</p>

*Inspired by* [*Photorealistic Text-to-Image Diffusion Models with Deep Language Understanding*](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2205.11487.pdf)

## Minimum requirements to use all IF models:
- 16GB vRAM for IF-I 4.3B (text to 64x64 base model) & IF-II 1.2B (to 256x256 upscaler)
- 24GB vRAM for IF-I 4.3B (text to 64x64 base model), IF-II 1.2B (to 256x256 upscaler) & Stable x4 (to 1024x1024 upscaler)
- 40GB vRAM for the all 3 IF diffusion cascades (IF-I, IF-II, IF-III)
- `xformers` and set env variable `FORCE_MEM_EFFICIENT_ATTN=1`


## Quick Start
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1M9GkgwHZgjD_NykCq8hV5imbSbmtXX6O?usp=sharing)
[![Hugging Face Spaces](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A4%97%20Hugging%20Face-Spaces-blue)](https://huggingface.co/spaces/DeepFloyd/IF)

```shell
pip install deepfloyd_if==0.0.1rc4
pip install xformers==0.0.16
```

## Local notebook and UI demo

The Dream, Style Transfer, Super Resolution or Inpainting modes are avaliable as in a Jupyter Notebook at `IF/notebooks/pipes-DeepFloyd-IF.ipynb` or as Gradio UI demo that you can run locally with
```shell
pip install gradio
python IF/gradio/if_demo.py
```

## Integration with `diffusers`
IF is integrated with the 🤗 Hugging Face [🧨 diffusers library](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/), which is optimized to run IF on GPUs with as little as 22 GB of VRAM with [model cpu offloading](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/optimization/fp16#model-offloading-for-fast-inference-and-memory-savings) enabled and 9 GB of VRAM with [sequential cpu offloading](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/optimization/fp16#offloading-to-cpu-with-accelerate-for-memory-savings) enabled.

Install dependencies

```sh
pip install diffusers[torch] transformers
```

```python
from diffusers import IFPipeline, IFSuperResolutionPipeline
import torch

pipe = IFPipeline.from_pretrained("DeepFloyd/IF-I-IF-v1.0", variant="fp16", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe.enable_model_cpu_offload()

prompt = 'a photo of a kangaroo wearing an orange hoodie and blue sunglasses standing in front of the eiffel tower holding a sign that says "very deep learning"'
prompt_embeds, negative_embeds = pipe.encode_prompt(prompt)

image = pipe(prompt_embeds=prompt_embeds, negative_prompt_embeds=negative_embeds, output_type="pt").images

# save intermediate image
pil_image = image
pil_image = (pil_image / 2 + 0.5).clamp(0, 1)
pil_image = pil_image.cpu().permute(0, 2, 3, 1).float().numpy()
pil_image = pipe.numpy_to_pil(pil_image)[0]
pil_image.save("./if_stage_I.png")

super_res_1_pipe = IFSuperResolutionPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "DeepFloyd/IF-II-L-v1.0", text_encoder=None, variant="fp16", torch_dtype=torch.float16
)
super_res_1_pipe.enable_model_cpu_offload()

image = super_res_1_pipe(
    image=image, prompt_embeds=prompt_embeds, negative_prompt_embeds=negative_embeds, output_type="pt"
).images

# save intermediate image
pil_image = image
pil_image = (pil_image / 2 + 0.5).clamp(0, 1)
pil_image = pil_image.cpu().permute(0, 2, 3, 1).float().numpy()
pil_image = pipe.numpy_to_pil(pil_image)[0]
pil_image.save("./if_stage_II.png")

super_res_2_pipe = IFSuperResolutionPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "DeepFloyd/IF-III-L-v1.0", text_encoder=None, variant="fp16", torch_dtype=torch.float16
)
super_res_2_pipe.enable_model_cpu_offload()

pil_image = super_res_2_pipe(
    image=image,
    prompt_embeds=prompt_embeds,
    negative_prompt_embeds=negative_embeds,
    noise_level=0,
    num_inference_steps=40,
).images[0]

# save end image
pil_image.save("./if_stage_III.png")
```

Read the [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/api/pipelines/if) or visit the [repo](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers) for more details on IF's diffusers integration

## Run the code locally

### Loading the models into VRAM

```python
from deepfloyd_if.modules import IFStageI, IFStageII, IFStageIII
from deepfloyd_if.modules.t5 import T5Embedder

hf_token = '<YOUR_TOKEN>'
device = 'cuda:0'
if_I = IFStageI('IF-I-IF-v1.0', device=device, hf_token=hf_token)
if_II = IFStageII('IF-II-L-v1.0', device=device, hf_token=hf_token)
if_III = IFStageIII('IF-III-L-v1.0', device=device, hf_token=hf_token)
t5 = T5Embedder(device=device, hf_token=hf_token)
```

### I. Dream
Dream is the text-to-image mode of the IF model

```python
from deepfloyd_if.pipelines import dream

prompt = 'ultra close-up color photo portrait of rainbow owl with deer horns in the woods'
count = 4

result = dream(
    t5=t5, if_I=if_I, if_II=if_II, if_III=if_III,
    prompt=[prompt]*count,
    seed=42,
    if_I_kwargs={
        "guidance_scale": 7.0,
        "sample_timestep_respacing": "smart100",
    },
    if_II_kwargs={
        "guidance_scale": 4.0,
        "sample_timestep_respacing": "smart50",
    },
    if_III_kwargs={
        "guidance_scale": 4.0,
        "sample_timestep_respacing": "super40",
    },
)
if_III.show(result['III'], size=14)
```
![](./pics/dream-III.jpg)

## II. Zero-shot Style Transfer
In Style Transfer mode, the output of your prompt comes out at the style of the `support_pil_img`
```python
from deepfloyd_if.pipelines import style_transfer

result = style_transfer(
    t5=t5, if_I=if_I, if_II=if_II,
    support_pil_img=raw_pil_image,
    style_prompt=[
        'A fantasy landscape in style lego',
        'A fantasy landscape in style zombie',
        'A fantasy landscape in style origami',
        'A fantasy landscape in style anime',
    ],
    seed=42,
    if_I_kwargs={
        "guidance_scale": 10.0,
        "sample_timestep_respacing": "10,10,10,10,10,10,10,10,0,0",
        'support_noise_less_qsample_steps': 5,
    },
    if_II_kwargs={
        "guidance_scale": 4.0,
        "sample_timestep_respacing": 'smart50',
        "support_noise_less_qsample_steps": 5,
    },
)
if_I.show(result['II'], 1, 20)
```
![](./pics/style-transfer.jpg)

## III. Super Resolution
For super-resolution, users can run `IF-II` and `IF-III` on an image that was not necessarely generated by IF
`96px --> 1024px` (two cascades):

```python
from deepfloyd_if.pipelines import super_resolution

middle_res = super_resolution(
    t5,
    if_III=if_II,
    prompt=['face of beautiful woman, makeup, detailed picture, 4k dslr, best quality'],
    support_pil_img=raw_pil_image,
    img_scale=4.0,
    img_size=96,
    if_III_kwargs={
        'sample_timestep_respacing': 'smart100',
        'aug_level': 0.25,
        'guidance_scale': 4.0,
    },
)
high_res = super_resolution(
    t5,
    if_III=if_III,
    prompt=[''],
    support_pil_img=middle_res['III'][0],
    img_scale=1024/384,
    img_size=384,
    if_III_kwargs={
        'sample_timestep_respacing': 'super100',
        'aug_level': 0.0,
        'guidance_scale': 7.0,
    },
)
show_superres(raw_pil_image, high_res['III'][0])
```
![](./pics/super-res-0.jpg)

`384px --> 1024px` with aspect-ratio:

```python
from deepfloyd_if.pipelines import super_resolution

_res = super_resolution(
    t5,
    if_III=if_III,
    prompt=['cat, detailed picture, 4k dslr'],
    support_pil_img=raw_pil_image,
    img_scale=1024/384,
    img_size=384,
    if_III_kwargs={
        'sample_timestep_respacing': 'super100',
        'aug_level': 0.2,
        'guidance_scale': 4.0,
    },
)
show_superres(raw_pil_image, _res['III'][0])
```
![](./pics/super-res-1.jpg)


### IV. Zero-shot Inpainting
![](./pics/inpainting-mask.jpg)

```python
from deepfloyd_if.pipelines import inpainting

result = inpainting(
    t5=t5, if_I=if_I,
    if_II=if_II,
    if_III=if_III,
    support_pil_img=raw_pil_image,
    inpainting_mask=inpainting_mask,
    prompt=[
        'blue sunglasses',
        'yellow sunglasses',
        'red sunglasses',
        'green sunglasses',
    ],
    seed=42,
    if_I_kwargs={
        "guidance_scale": 7.0,
        "sample_timestep_respacing": "10,10,10,10,10,0,0,0,0,0",
        'support_noise_less_qsample_steps': 0,
    },
    if_II_kwargs={
        "guidance_scale": 4.0,
        'aug_level': 0.0,
        "sample_timestep_respacing": '100',
    },
    if_III_kwargs={
        "guidance_scale": 4.0,
        'aug_level': 0.0,
        "sample_timestep_respacing": '40',
        'support_noise_less_qsample_steps': 0,
    },
)
if_I.show(result['I'], 2, 3)
if_I.show(result['II'], 2, 6)
if_I.show(result['III'], 2, 14)
```
![](./pics/inpainting.jpg)

### 🤗 Model Zoo 🤗
The link to download the weights as well as the model cards are avaliable on each model of the model zoo

#### Original

| Name                                                      | Cascade | Params | FID  | Batch size | Steps |
|:----------------------------------------------------------|:-------:|:------:|:----:|:----------:|:-----:|
| [IF-I-M](https://huggingface.co/DeepFloyd/IF-I-M-v1.0)    |    I    |  400M  | 8.86 |    3072    | 2.5M  |
| [IF-I-L](https://huggingface.co/DeepFloyd/IF-I-L-v1.0)    |    I    |  900M  | 8.06 |    3200    | 3.0M  |
| IF-I-IF* _(soon)_                                         |    I    |  4.3B  | 6.66 |    3072    | 2.42M |
| [IF-II-M](https://huggingface.co/DeepFloyd/IF-II-M-v1.0)  |   II    |  450M  |  -   |    1536    | 2.5M  |
| [IF-II-L](https://huggingface.co/DeepFloyd/IF-II-L-v1.0)* |   II    |  1.2B  |  -   |    1536    | 2.5M  |
| IF-III-L* _(soon)_                                        |   III   |  700M  |  -   |    3072    | 1.25M |

 *best model

### Quantitative Evaluation

`FID = 6.66`

![](./pics/fid30k_if.jpg)

## License

The code in this repository is released under the MIT License.

The weights are available via [the DeepFloyd organization at Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/DeepFloyd) and have their own LICENSE.


## Limitations and Biases

The models avaliable in this codebase have known limitations and biases. Please refer to [the model card](https://huggingface.co/DeepFloyd/IF-I-L-v1.0) for more information.

## Citation

```bibtex
@misc{IF2023,
    title={IF only: a pixel diffusion model with ...},
    author={A Shonenkov and M Konstantinov and D Bakshandaeva and C Schuhmann and R Vencu and D Ha and E Mostaque},
    year={2023},
    eprint={...},
    archivePrefix={arXiv},
    primaryClass={cs.CV}
}
```

## Acknowledgements

Especially thanks to [StabilityAI](http://stability.ai) for support, provided GPU compute and infrastructure to train models [Richard Vencu](https://github.com/rvencu); thanks to [LAION](https://laion.ai) for provided and well-prepared datasets; thanks to [Huggingface](https://huggingface.co) teams for optimisation speed and consumption of models in inference, creating demos and always cool advices!

## 🚀 Contributors 🚀
- Thanks, [@Dango233](https://github.com/Dango233), for adaptation IF with xformers memory efficient attention
- Thanks, [@patrickvonplaten](https://github.com/patrickvonplaten), for improving loading time of unet models by 80%

Commit message:

add image to image translation block

README.md, after:

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/Code_License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/deepfloyd_if)](https://pepy.tech/project/deepfloyd_if)

# DeepFloyd-IF

<p align="center">
  <img src="./pics/nabla.jpg" width="100%">
</p>

We introduce DeepFloyd IF, a novel state-of-the-art open-source text-to-image model with a high degree of photorealism and language understanding. DeepFloyd IF is a modular composed of a frozen text encoder and three cascaded pixel diffusion modules: a base model that generates 64x64 px image based on text prompt and two super-resolution models, each designed to generate images of increasing resolution: 256x256 px and 1024x1024 px. All stages of the model utilize a frozen text encoder based on the T5 transformer to extract text embeddings, which are then fed into a UNet architecture enhanced with cross-attention and attention pooling. The result is a highly efficient model that outperforms current state-of-the-art models, achieving a zero-shot FID score of 6.66 on the COCO dataset. Our work underscores the potential of larger UNet architectures in the first stage of cascaded diffusion models and depicts a promising future for text-to-image synthesis.

<p align="center">
  <img src="./pics/if_architecture.jpg" width="100%">
</p>

*Inspired by* [*Photorealistic Text-to-Image Diffusion Models with Deep Language Understanding*](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2205.11487.pdf)

## Minimum requirements to use all IF models:
- 16GB vRAM for IF-I 4.3B (text to 64x64 base model) & IF-II 1.2B (to 256x256 upscaler)
- 24GB vRAM for IF-I 4.3B (text to 64x64 base model), IF-II 1.2B (to 256x256 upscaler) & Stable x4 (to 1024x1024 upscaler)
- 40GB vRAM for the all 3 IF diffusion cascades (IF-I, IF-II, IF-III)
- `xformers` and set env variable `FORCE_MEM_EFFICIENT_ATTN=1`


## Quick Start
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1M9GkgwHZgjD_NykCq8hV5imbSbmtXX6O?usp=sharing)
[![Hugging Face Spaces](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A4%97%20Hugging%20Face-Spaces-blue)](https://huggingface.co/spaces/DeepFloyd/IF)

```shell
pip install deepfloyd_if==0.0.1rc4
pip install xformers==0.0.16
```

## Local notebook and UI demo

The Dream, Style Transfer, Super Resolution or Inpainting modes are avaliable as in a Jupyter Notebook at `IF/notebooks/pipes-DeepFloyd-IF.ipynb` or as Gradio UI demo that you can run locally with
```shell
pip install gradio
python IF/gradio/if_demo.py
```

## Integration with `diffusers`
IF is integrated with the 🤗 Hugging Face [🧨 diffusers library](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/), which is optimized to run IF on GPUs with as little as 22 GB of VRAM with [model cpu offloading](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/optimization/fp16#model-offloading-for-fast-inference-and-memory-savings) enabled and 9 GB of VRAM with [sequential cpu offloading](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/optimization/fp16#offloading-to-cpu-with-accelerate-for-memory-savings) enabled.

Install dependencies

```sh
pip install diffusers[torch] transformers
```

```python
from diffusers import IFPipeline, IFSuperResolutionPipeline
import torch

pipe = IFPipeline.from_pretrained("DeepFloyd/IF-I-IF-v1.0", variant="fp16", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe.enable_model_cpu_offload()

prompt = 'a photo of a kangaroo wearing an orange hoodie and blue sunglasses standing in front of the eiffel tower holding a sign that says "very deep learning"'
prompt_embeds, negative_embeds = pipe.encode_prompt(prompt)

image = pipe(prompt_embeds=prompt_embeds, negative_prompt_embeds=negative_embeds, output_type="pt").images

# save intermediate image
pil_image = image
pil_image = (pil_image / 2 + 0.5).clamp(0, 1)
pil_image = pil_image.cpu().permute(0, 2, 3, 1).float().numpy()
pil_image = pipe.numpy_to_pil(pil_image)[0]
pil_image.save("./if_stage_I.png")

super_res_1_pipe = IFSuperResolutionPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "DeepFloyd/IF-II-L-v1.0", text_encoder=None, variant="fp16", torch_dtype=torch.float16
)
super_res_1_pipe.enable_model_cpu_offload()

image = super_res_1_pipe(
    image=image, prompt_embeds=prompt_embeds, negative_prompt_embeds=negative_embeds, output_type="pt"
).images

# save intermediate image
pil_image = image
pil_image = (pil_image / 2 + 0.5).clamp(0, 1)
pil_image = pil_image.cpu().permute(0, 2, 3, 1).float().numpy()
pil_image = pipe.numpy_to_pil(pil_image)[0]
pil_image.save("./if_stage_II.png")

super_res_2_pipe = IFSuperResolutionPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "DeepFloyd/IF-III-L-v1.0", text_encoder=None, variant="fp16", torch_dtype=torch.float16
)
super_res_2_pipe.enable_model_cpu_offload()

pil_image = super_res_2_pipe(
    image=image,
    prompt_embeds=prompt_embeds,
    negative_prompt_embeds=negative_embeds,
    noise_level=0,
    num_inference_steps=40,
).images[0]

# save end image
pil_image.save("./if_stage_III.png")
```

Read the [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/api/pipelines/if) or visit the [repo](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers) for more details on IF's diffusers integration

## Run the code locally

### Loading the models into VRAM

```python
from deepfloyd_if.modules import IFStageI, IFStageII, IFStageIII
from deepfloyd_if.modules.t5 import T5Embedder

hf_token = '<YOUR_TOKEN>'
device = 'cuda:0'
if_I = IFStageI('IF-I-IF-v1.0', device=device, hf_token=hf_token)
if_II = IFStageII('IF-II-L-v1.0', device=device, hf_token=hf_token)
if_III = IFStageIII('IF-III-L-v1.0', device=device, hf_token=hf_token)
t5 = T5Embedder(device=device, hf_token=hf_token)
```

### I. Dream
Dream is the text-to-image mode of the IF model

```python
from deepfloyd_if.pipelines import dream

prompt = 'ultra close-up color photo portrait of rainbow owl with deer horns in the woods'
count = 4

result = dream(
    t5=t5, if_I=if_I, if_II=if_II, if_III=if_III,
    prompt=[prompt]*count,
    seed=42,
    if_I_kwargs={
        "guidance_scale": 7.0,
        "sample_timestep_respacing": "smart100",
    },
    if_II_kwargs={
        "guidance_scale": 4.0,
        "sample_timestep_respacing": "smart50",
    },
    if_III_kwargs={
        "guidance_scale": 4.0,
        "sample_timestep_respacing": "super40",
    },
)
if_III.show(result['III'], size=14)
```
![](./pics/dream-III.jpg)

## II. Zero-shot Image-to-Image Translation

![](./pics/img_to_img_scheme.jpeg)

In Style Transfer mode, the output of your prompt comes out at the style of the `support_pil_img`
```python
from deepfloyd_if.pipelines import style_transfer

result = style_transfer(
    t5=t5, if_I=if_I, if_II=if_II,
    support_pil_img=raw_pil_image,
    style_prompt=[
        'in style of professional origami',
        'in style of oil art, Tate modern',
        'in style of plastic building bricks',
        'in style of classic anime from 1990',
    ],
    seed=42,
    if_I_kwargs={
        "guidance_scale": 10.0,
        "sample_timestep_respacing": "10,10,10,10,10,10,10,10,0,0",
        'support_noise_less_qsample_steps': 5,
    },
    if_II_kwargs={
        "guidance_scale": 4.0,
        "sample_timestep_respacing": 'smart50',
        "support_noise_less_qsample_steps": 5,
    },
)
if_I.show(result['II'], 1, 20)
```

![Alternative Text](./pics/deep_floyd_if_image_2_image.gif)


## III. Super Resolution
For super-resolution, users can run `IF-II` and `IF-III` on an image that was not necessarely generated by IF
`96px --> 1024px` (two cascades):

```python
from deepfloyd_if.pipelines import super_resolution

middle_res = super_resolution(
    t5,
    if_III=if_II,
    prompt=['face of beautiful woman, makeup, detailed picture, 4k dslr, best quality'],
    support_pil_img=raw_pil_image,
    img_scale=4.0,
    img_size=96,
    if_III_kwargs={
        'sample_timestep_respacing': 'smart100',
        'aug_level': 0.25,
        'guidance_scale': 4.0,
    },
)
high_res = super_resolution(
    t5,
    if_III=if_III,
    prompt=[''],
    support_pil_img=middle_res['III'][0],
    img_scale=1024/384,
    img_size=384,
    if_III_kwargs={
        'sample_timestep_respacing': 'super100',
        'aug_level': 0.0,
        'guidance_scale': 7.0,
    },
)
show_superres(raw_pil_image, high_res['III'][0])
```
![](./pics/super-res-0.jpg)

`384px --> 1024px` with aspect-ratio:

```python
from deepfloyd_if.pipelines import super_resolution

_res = super_resolution(
    t5,
    if_III=if_III,
    prompt=['cat, detailed picture, 4k dslr'],
    support_pil_img=raw_pil_image,
    img_scale=1024/384,
    img_size=384,
    if_III_kwargs={
        'sample_timestep_respacing': 'super100',
        'aug_level': 0.2,
        'guidance_scale': 4.0,
    },
)
show_superres(raw_pil_image, _res['III'][0])
```
![](./pics/super-res-1.jpg)


### IV. Zero-shot Inpainting
![](./pics/inpainting-mask.jpg)

```python
from deepfloyd_if.pipelines import inpainting

result = inpainting(
    t5=t5, if_I=if_I,
    if_II=if_II,
    if_III=if_III,
    support_pil_img=raw_pil_image,
    inpainting_mask=inpainting_mask,
    prompt=[
        'blue sunglasses',
        'yellow sunglasses',
        'red sunglasses',
        'green sunglasses',
    ],
    seed=42,
    if_I_kwargs={
        "guidance_scale": 7.0,
        "sample_timestep_respacing": "10,10,10,10,10,0,0,0,0,0",
        'support_noise_less_qsample_steps': 0,
    },
    if_II_kwargs={
        "guidance_scale": 4.0,
        'aug_level': 0.0,
        "sample_timestep_respacing": '100',
    },
    if_III_kwargs={
        "guidance_scale": 4.0,
        'aug_level': 0.0,
        "sample_timestep_respacing": '40',
        'support_noise_less_qsample_steps': 0,
    },
)
if_I.show(result['I'], 2, 3)
if_I.show(result['II'], 2, 6)
if_I.show(result['III'], 2, 14)
```
![](./pics/inpainting.jpg)

### 🤗 Model Zoo 🤗
The link to download the weights as well as the model cards are avaliable on each model of the model zoo

#### Original

| Name                                                      | Cascade | Params | FID  | Batch size | Steps |
|:----------------------------------------------------------|:-------:|:------:|:----:|:----------:|:-----:|
| [IF-I-M](https://huggingface.co/DeepFloyd/IF-I-M-v1.0)    |    I    |  400M  | 8.86 |    3072    | 2.5M  |
| [IF-I-L](https://huggingface.co/DeepFloyd/IF-I-L-v1.0)    |    I    |  900M  | 8.06 |    3200    | 3.0M  |
| IF-I-IF* _(soon)_                                         |    I    |  4.3B  | 6.66 |    3072    | 2.42M |
| [IF-II-M](https://huggingface.co/DeepFloyd/IF-II-M-v1.0)  |   II    |  450M  |  -   |    1536    | 2.5M  |
| [IF-II-L](https://huggingface.co/DeepFloyd/IF-II-L-v1.0)* |   II    |  1.2B  |  -   |    1536    | 2.5M  |
| IF-III-L* _(soon)_                                        |   III   |  700M  |  -   |    3072    | 1.25M |

 *best model

### Quantitative Evaluation

`FID = 6.66`

![](./pics/fid30k_if.jpg)

## License

The code in this repository is released under the MIT License.

The weights are available via [the DeepFloyd organization at Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/DeepFloyd) and have their own LICENSE.


## Limitations and Biases

The models avaliable in this codebase have known limitations and biases. Please refer to [the model card](https://huggingface.co/DeepFloyd/IF-I-L-v1.0) for more information.

## Citation

```bibtex
@misc{IF2023,
    title={IF only: a pixel diffusion model with ...},
    author={A Shonenkov and M Konstantinov and D Bakshandaeva and C Schuhmann and R Vencu and D Ha and E Mostaque},
    year={2023},
    eprint={...},
    archivePrefix={arXiv},
    primaryClass={cs.CV}
}
```

## Acknowledgements

Especially thanks to [StabilityAI](http://stability.ai) for support, provided GPU compute and infrastructure to train models [Richard Vencu](https://github.com/rvencu); thanks to [LAION](https://laion.ai) for provided and well-prepared datasets; thanks to [Huggingface](https://huggingface.co) teams for optimisation speed and consumption of models in inference, creating demos and always cool advices!

## 🚀 Contributors 🚀
- Thanks, [@Dango233](https://github.com/Dango233), for adaptation IF with xformers memory efficient attention
- Thanks, [@patrickvonplaten](https://github.com/patrickvonplaten), for improving loading time of unet models by 80%
